#(Coursera) Getting & Cleaning Data Project::

##FILES SUBMITTED TO GITHUB REPOSITORY
1) README.md (this file)

2) CodeBook.md

3) run_analysis.R
(This R-script downloads the zipped raw data from the weblink provided below and saves it into the working directory.)

##TIDY DATA SUBMITTED ON COURSERA
tidy.txt

This file is generated by running "run_analysis.R" file.
The variable names of tidy data are described in CodeBook.md file. 

##RAW DATA INFORMATION
###Data Link (zip file): 
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

###Parent Source:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

###General Description:

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING,STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

###Relevant Files (in zipped raw data, link above):

train/subject_train.txt': An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

train/y_train.txt': Training activity labels with 6 factor levels.

train/X_train.txt': Training set with 561 variables.

test/subject_test.txt': An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

test/y_test.txt': Test activity labels with 6 factor levels.

test/X_test.txt': Test set with 561 variables.

###Activity Labels:

1 WALKING

2 WALKING_UPSTAIRS

3 WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS

4 SITTING

5 STANDING

6 LAYING

###Features Description/Additional Information:

Refer "README.txt", "features_info.txt" and "features.txt" (all in zipped raw data, link above). 

##RUNNING run_analysis.R
###Raw Data Download:
This R-script downloads the zipped raw data from the weblink provided above and saves it into the working directory.

###Script Actions:

Cbinding subject_train, y_train and X_train to create traindata (7352 obs. of  563 variables).

Cbinding subject_test, y_test and X_test to create testdata (2947 obs. of  563 variables).

Actual activity labels (6 factor levels) are used to represent activities in the above actions.

Rbinding traindata and testdata to form fulldata (10299 obs. of  563 variables).

First and Second column names of fulldata: subjectID, activity_name resp.

Reading 561 features from features.txt and renaming  remaining features of fulldata.

Extracting column names with mean() and std() into smalldata (10299 obs. of  68 variables).

Calculating averages for every combination of subjectID, activity_name and 66 measurement variables.

Writing tidy.txt file (180 obs. of  68 variables) 

###Final output: 
This R-script creates tidy.txt in the working directory. 
